Thanks everybody.
That's it, we're done,
this has been awesome.
I'm so happy that you have stuck with me
and gone through all these exercises,
it is a lot of work.
And so yeah, well done.
Now that we're finished with the
exercises, before I send you off on your
way, I'd love to just answer any
questions that you have about remix,
any questions about workshop exercises
at home, whatever you'd like to
ask before we say tata for now, yes
>> Do you have some resources on
building like a progressive web app so
I can use remix stuff?
>> Yeah, so remix doesn't have anything
built in that is for progressive web app.
Let's do a remix PWA GitHub
because there's a GitHub project.
There we go.
[LAUGH] Yeah,
looks like there are a couple of
people have been working on this.
This one.
Yeah, looks like somebody's
put a lot of effort into this.
So that's awesome.
So take a look at that.
And then Jacob EB.
He's remix employee, just as so
many things, really smart dude.
And he's actually the genius behind a lot
of the way that the defer API works.
Super cool.
And so yeah,
you could take a look at that.
I have not personally looked into
PWA's with Remix a whole lot.
But one interesting thing is that I don't
think anybody's tried this yet, but
I'm pretty confident that Remix
can run in a service worker.
And so if you want it to be like
completely offline and still have your
loaders and actions and all that, you can
try to put Remix in a ServiceWorker and
then get your offline stuff there too.
Which would be pretty cool.
And we definitely have an appetite for
building in some utilities for
offline first development.
I think that would be pretty cool.
Some like IndexDB back thing and
synchronizing, all that stuff.
There's opportunity there.
But yeah, hopefully these give you
some direction as you get started.
>> Is there going to be CSS inside
of a component type of solution?
>> Well kinda depends on what
you call CSS inside a component,
that kind of feels like CSS and
signing component to me.
But yeah.
So you can use CSS and
JIS solutions that they are supported.
We've got examples for
all of the major ones.
CSS modules,
not quite sure what you're asking for, but
those are not currently supported.
Eventually we are working
on solving that problem.
The vanilla extract same thing,
I know that's kind of a hot one for
people right now and it seems pretty cool.
Also not currently supported.
Because it doesn't create a CSS file,
at least not without
integration in the bundler.
So we're figuring out a good
way to make that work as well.
As far as a Vue single file component,
right now,
we don't support Vue in the future,
we probably very likely will.
And when we do,
I'm sure that it will support all
the features that you love for Vue.
So that will probably happen also.
Personally, I've used all of the things,
all of them, and every way you can do CSS.
And for building anything that's bigger
than a small app, I just love Tailwind.
I just love it.
It is, for me, been one of the most
productive things I've used for CSS.
I built a CSS and JS library,
you know emotion.
I didn't build that, but I built
glamorous upon which emotion was based.
And I deprecated glamourous and let them
handle all the maintenance, it was great.
And they did a great job, they did better
than I did, that's why I deprecated it.
And so, I've been involved in this,
and Tailwind is the bomb, I love it.
I know some people can't get over it,
they don't like it, and that's fine,
I'm not gonna think that you're
a terrible person if you don't love it.
But I'm pretty satisfied with Tailwind but
yes,
we will definitely support
whatever way you'd like to do CSS.
The one thing that I will mention though,
is that we really want to make sure
that people who build Remix
apps build really great apps.
So we don't want to give you foot guns and
things and CSS and JS is a foot gun,
it totally is.
You're going to make your app slower,
that's just the way that it is.
Any runtime CSS and
JS solution is gonna have that problem.
And so we do not encourage that even
though it technically can be supported.
So yeah, that is that.
Another question?
>> Is there any integration
with storybook?
>> Not currently, but that is actually
very closely related to the issues with
integration testing and testing
components or rendering components that
use Remix components like the link tag or
the link components and things.
Because those components require context
provided by Remix which we don't expose
currently.
So, as soon as the Remix router is
finished, then we can start working on
those utilities that will
expose those providers.
And that will handle both the testing
story as well as the storybook story.
For me right now as a workaround for that,
if I need something that lets me iterate
quickly on a component in isolation like
what storybook offers, I will just make
a route that only renders that
component with the prompts that I want.
It takes all of like 20
seconds to set that up.
And so that's what I did before
storybook was around and it still works.
So not to downplay storybook,
I think it's amazing, awesome tool.
And yeah, support will come eventually.
>> What are you personally most
excited about the future of Remix?
>> Okay, well, not to date this
workshop too much, I guess.
Yeah, the future of Remix.
So there are three or four things that I'm
not super jazzed about Remix right now.
And one of them is the support for
CSS that we talked about already.
We're currently working on a solution for
that.
But it would be really nice if people
who are using CSS modules didn't have to
rewrite their CSS to be
able to migrate to Remix.
So yeah, we are working on that currently.
I'm not super jazzed about the testing and
Storybook integration,
which we also talked about.
We're currently working on that as well.
I am not super excited about
the the fact that we don't support
Hot Module Replacement yet,
also working on that right now.
So the things that I'm not
super excited about with Remix,
we're actively working on.
Some things that, and so
I'm excited about those things
being like handled and
improved in use cases.
And some of the things,
I'm not gonna not talk to you specifically
about what we're doing to deal with those.
And the fourth one is
the authentication stuff,
we talked about this in
the fundamentals workshop where you
have to protect every single
route which is kind of annoying.
Or you have workarounds with Express
middleware and stuff like that.
So, those are some of
the things that bother me.
Luckily, none of those are cracks in
the foundation, foundation is solid,
those things can be solved and
we are actively working on them.
So it excites me to get
those things done and
actually when some of
those things are finished,
we don't like to talk too much about
things that haven't actually shipped.
And so I can talk about this because
we shipped it in an experiment and
people have been using it and
it's pretty amazing, quite stable.
But yeah, some of the work that we're
doing to solve some of those problems
hasn't shipped anything yet, so I don't
wanna talk too much about how we're
working on that and
how we're trying to solve that.
But when those things are finished,
it will open up the opportunity for
more people to be able to
migrate even easier to Remix and
just get nicer experiences very quickly.
And then I'm also excited about
the future of maybe some of
the newer JavaScript runtimes
that support TypeScript built in.
And the fact that the browser
supports the ES modules, and
hopefully getting past this
terrible ES module, common JAS,
nonsense that we're dealing with
right now in the node ecosystem.
But in Dino and Bun being able
to just execute JavaScript, or
TypeScript directly and
in button JSX support built in, and so
you can have a Remix app that
doesn't have any sort of Bundler.
Now, of course,
you've got tons of dependencies, right?
You don't wanna load 5,000
JavaScript files in the browser.
Well, what if your runtime is fast enough
that you can compile or bundle on demand?
Why not, sure.
So no build, deploy in five seconds.
That sounds kinda cool.
Kinda like that.
I mean, the challenge there still is
like migrations will still take how long
migrations do.
But if you're just changing code deploy
in five seconds, that sounds awesome.
So I'm really excited about
opportunities that not just Remix but
the web and infrastructure enables,
it's amazing.
And to get this released, wow,
that is cool, that is really cool.
So definitely I've never been so
excited about building web applications,
my own website is, I think the first large
deployments of a Remix application, it's
probably still the largest open-source
deployments of Remix application.
I was building it while
Remix was being built.
I started it before actions were a thing.
And so
like kinda constructing the plane or yeah,
in the air [LAUGH], sort of thing.
And I'm still just floored by what I
was able to accomplish with Remix.
So yeah, Remix tricked me into
being a back end developer.
Most of the code that I write is back
end stuff, but it doesn't feel like it.
It just feels like I'm writing UI and
way less code
than I ever wrote for
these kinds of UIs ever before.
So anyway,
there's enough gushing over Remix for me.
There you go.
Any other questions?
>> No.
>> Okay, yeah, TJ.
>> Aside from this course and your web
website and the Remix website itself,
do you have any other places
where we go for documentation or
examples in the Remix community?
>> Yeah, thank you so
much for asking that.
So on the Remix site, we've got our docs.
And there's the quickstart guide.
That's basically a tutorial version
of the Remix fundamentals workshop we
did yesterday.
So the workshop yesterday has more
stuff and then of course I'm there.
But there's also an egghead course that
goes through lots of that stuff as well.
And then the jokes app deep dive is
a really long tutorial that I did and
I live streamed the whole thing.
It's six hours long on YouTube
that you can go along through this
tutorial with me.
I'm not sure why the image failed to load.
But yeah, we go into like, all right let's
bring in styles and let's talk about
authentication, let's set up our Prisma
thing, all basically from scratch.
So, this one's really in depth, it'll
teach you a lot of really cool stuff.
And then we also have of course like
API reference documentation and
everything like that.
The philosophy page is
actually really useful for
people trying to get an understanding
of what role Remix plays
in the broader ecosystem of the web,
technical explanation,
I recommend reading that as well,
kinda explain how things work technically.
And then the community as well where this
will tell you where you can go to our
Discord server, really friendly place
we're working hard to make sure it
stays that way, so
if you're not friendly stay out.
But I'm sure that you're wonderful
people and we'd love to have you there.
We also have a pretty active GitHub
discussions, we have a lot of examples,
happy to accept PRs for more and
for improvements as well.
And growing list of courses that
the community members have made,
and all of that stuff.
And of course,
Remix con coming I scheduled for
the second week of May next year,
so look forward to that as well.
So, yeah, and this page,
are probably the best spots.
There's actually another unofficial
thing remix doc guide that
somebody put together to Remix app
that has just like a ton of resources,
whether it's packages,
tutorials, all sorts of stuff.
So that's another pretty good
one to take a look at and
submit your own stuff too and stuff.
Thank you so much for giving me
some of your time to tell you about
something that I love and that I think
will make the web a better place.
I hope that you take
the time to play with it.
Try it out, do a proof of concept,
and I said yesterday,
the way that I develop software is,
if I'm ever unsure what approach to take,
I implement them both and
choose the one that I hate the least.
And so, I hope that you do that.
And that when you say I hate this
one the least, you're actually like,
actually I love this, and it's Remix.
[LAUGH] Thank you so much and
have a wonderful day.
>> [APPLAUSE]